# Project Synopsis

Crabs serve an important role within the intertidal through predator-prey interactions, effect on fisheries and bioindicators. With anthropogenic influence, many different pollutants enter the watershed through waste water, including pharmaceuticals like NSAIDs, antidepressants and caffeine. Hemigrapsus oregonensis, or the yellow hairy shore crab, is a small shore crab found within the intertidal, ranging from Alaska to Baja California and often used as a study organism. Caffeine has been shown to affect crabs in several different ways across different cells within the body. Caffeine changes the permeability and polarity of membranes and decreases the energy needed for the activation for a variety of different cellular processes. This study will look at how different environmental concentrations of caffeine will affect the physiological stress response in H. oregonensis by exposing crabs to 5 ug/L, 15 ug/L and 20 ug/L of caffeine over the course of a 14-day experiment. To assess this, oxygen consumption will be evaluated, behavioral data like righting time will be recorded and hemolymph assay for concentrations of L-Lactate will be performed. 
Righting time across the three treatments varied, with several outliers that took longer to right themselves than others. Other behaviors included crabs clinging to the tubing of the aeration device within the tanks and two crabs escaping through the tank lid which likely is from chronic stress. A linear regression was used to assess the different rates of oxygen consumption found from the resazurin assay value. After one week, it showed that the crab under the high dose treatment had the highest rate consumption of oxygen while the control crab had the lowest rate consumption. This trend was reversed after the second week, with the low dose crab consuming the highest amount and the high dose treated crab consuming the least amount oxygen. This may indicate that at a certain point, the medium and high dose crabs could not maintain the increase in respiration and no longer had an elevated uptake in oxygen, while the low dose crabs had yet to reach that point.
The crabs in the high dose and low dose treatments had slightly more elevated levels of L-Lactate, while the control group had a significantly greater elevation in lactate. The control crabs were not chronically stressed and could compensate for short-term increased energy needs through the use of lactic acid and lactate. 
Based on the lactate assay, righting time and oxygen consumption, the crabs showed an increase in physiological stress responses from longer and higher exposure to caffeine. 
